CSS Interview Question

1. What is CSS with its Abbreviation?
2. How many Version in CSS?
	3

3. How to link CSS with HTML?
4. Types of Selectors?
	Simple selectors (select elements based on name, id, class)
	Combinator selectors (select elements based on a specific relationship between them)
		descendant selector (space)
		child selector (>)
		adjacent sibling selector (+)
		general sibling selector (~)
	Pseudo-class selectors (select elements based on a certain state)
		Style an element when a user mouses over it
		Style visited and unvisited links differently
		Style an element when it gets focus
	Pseudo-elements selectors (select and style a part of an element)
		Style the first letter, or line, of an element
		Insert content before, or after, the content of an element
	Attribute selectors (select elements based on an attribute or attribute value)
		The [attribute] selector is used to select elements with a specified attribute.

5. What is Specificity and When to use Selectors?
	Type selectors (e.g., h1) and pseudo-elements (e.g., ::before).
	Class selectors (e.g., .example), attributes selectors (e.g., [type="radio"]) and pseudo-classes (e.g., :hover).
	ID selectors (e.g., #example).
	Universal selector (*), combinators (+, >, ~, " ", ||) and negation pseudo-class (:not()) have no effect on specificity. (The selectors declared inside :not() do, however.)

6. Types of colors?
7. How many Position in CSS?
	static
	relative
	fixed
	absolute
	sticky

8. List out the background Properties?
	background-color
	background-image
	background-position
	background-size
	background-repeat
	background-origin
	background-clip
	background-attachment

9. What is Opacity and Transparency and Default valus of Opacity?
10.Types of Units?
11.Types of Gradients colors?
	Linear, Radial,conic, Angle, Reflected and Diamond. 

12.Text Manipulation and its properties?
	letter-spacing
	word-spacing
	text-indent
	text-align
	text-align
	text-transform
	white-space  

13.Explain Box Model?
14.Float and Display types?
	-The float property specifies whether an element should float to the left, right, or not at all.
	-None, Inline, block, inline-block

15.Flexbox and its properties?
	Control the position, size and spacing of elements relative to their parents elements and each other.
	They are great for responsive designing.
	It has its own set of properties.
	It defines formatting context, which controls layout.
 		display 
		flex-direction
		flex-wrap
  		flex-flow
		justify-content
		align-content 
		align-items
		{parent properties: order , flex-grow , flex-shrink ,flex-basis , flex-self }  
16.Grid and its properties?
	Grid is one of CSS’s layout tools, which lets you easily implement a complex design layout using the “row and column approach.” Responsive web pages are created easier with a CSS grid without any hassle and consistently across browsers.
		display.
		grid-template-columns.
		grid-template-rows.
		grid-template-areas.
		grid-template.
		grid-column-gap.
		grid-row-gap.
		grid-gap

17.Difference between Flexbox and Grid?
	Dimensions define the primary demarcation between Flexbox and CSS Grid. Flexbox was designed specifically for one-dimensional layouts, while CSS Grid is engineered to enable two-dimensional layouts. Therefore, CSS Grid can easily render rows and columns simultaneously.

18.Difference between Justify content and align content?

19.Difference between Transition and Transform?
20. What is Animation and Keyframes? 